.TH RECAPIT 1 "November 2025" "recapit" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
recapit \- transcribe documents, slides, images, video, or convert LaTeX/Markdown
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B recapit
.I SOURCE
[general options]
.br
.B recapit
--dry-run [--json] [general options]
.br
.B recapit
.I SOURCE
--to \fImarkdown|json\fP [--from \fIauto|latex|markdown\fP] [conversion options]
.br
.B recapit report cost
[--json] [-i \fIrun-summary.json\fP]
.br
.B recapit cleanup cache
[--dry-run] [--yes]
.br
.B recapit cleanup downloads
-p \fIPATH\fP [--dry-run] [--yes]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Recapit ingests PDFs, images, videos, and URLs, normalizes them (rasterizing PDFs, chunking video), and sends them to Google Gemini models to produce cleaned Markdown or LaTeX transcripts. It can also convert LaTeX/Markdown sources to Markdown or JSON using the same models.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --kind auto|document|slides|lecture|image|video
Force the transcription kind.
.TP
.B --pdf-mode auto|images|pdf
Select PDF ingestion strategy.
.TP
.B --pdf-dpi NUM
DPI used when rasterizing PDFs (default 200).
.TP
.B --dry-run
Plan ingestion/normalization without calling Gemini; use --json for machine-readable output.
.TP
.B --to markdown|json
Convert input files instead of transcribing.
.TP
.B --from auto|latex|markdown
Hint the input format for conversion (default auto).
.TP
.B --export srt|vtt|markdown|json
Write additional export formats.
.TP
.B --preset NAME
Use a preset from recapit.yaml (built-ins: basic, speed, quality).
.TP
.B --config FILE
Override config file path.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I recapit.yaml
Optional configuration with defaults and presets.
.SH SEE ALSO
https://github.com/recapit/recapit
